imagine you lived in a world where
people chose their political leaders by
the size of their waist if you're a
vegan in the year 2016 it sometimes
feels like that is the world you are
living in i made an earlier video in
which i made the very serious concession
that I think freelee and durianrider did
not ask for the position of leadership
there now in I think they really can
claim you know honestly enough fairly
enough that they they just wanted to
sell diet books they just want to ride
their bicycles they just want to go on
vacation in Thailand and they were not
asking for the sort of position as
leader of leaders of a social movement
that they're now in but nevertheless
were in the position of asking ourselves
about the consequences and what happens
next given the position of leadership
there and so you know that that's a
significant concession I'm in many ways
I see these things as not their fault
that also means they I don't give them
that much credit for it either but for
whatever reason you know public interest
latched on to them in a massive way and
they have a huge following and you're
about to see they like to bully other
people and beat them over the head with
it we saw this recently with Hania and
her boyfriend Jason here's Erin Janice I
assume it's Janice and not Jana's um
Erin Janice is a successful vegan
youtuber she reaches a very large
audience with videos discussing
different issues the most recent one I
think is on the wool industry I would
say her videos are trying to reach non
vegans or trying to reach a broader
audience and and convert them to
veganism I have no idea what she did
with her life before that I've no idea
what she's doing with her life outside
of that just mention I assume she has a
normal job she doesn't seem to be a
full-time internet personality but I I
really don't know I know nothing about
her outside of her vegan advocacy so she
wrote on the internet she dared to write
freely has become one of the most
embarrassing and immature activists in
the moon
meant she was initially why I became
vegan I looked up to her so much
now I just hope my little brother and
little cousins do not come across her
videos they're disgusting in high school
um I don't think this this message was
posted in a place where she thought
anyone would see it I don't think this
was a bold declaration the world but
freely was on the job freely tracked it
down and posted a response freely had to
address this insubordination it the
ranks of her followers um the core of
what Aaron is saying here is you know
really sincere and really humble and
really real because she's just
reflecting in one sense there in the
past tense quote I looked up to her so
much close quote
that's a big deal freely has lost the
respect of someone who used to respect
her a great deal freely has continued to
alienate her core supporters she's
continued to make enemies out of the
people who should be her allies same
with durianrider durianrider takes it to
another level this is in her couple now
again there within their rights to say
they didn't want to be in a position of
leadership they just want to do their
own thing and they're doing it
so you know nobody can fault them for
that nobody can take that away from them
however you know again this is the
opposite of political organization any
kind of political organization even if
it's just a charity to save the whales
even if we just want to raise money to
help the pandas like some of those
objectives when you think about it or a
lot simpler than veganism is a social
movement if you want to make a
foundation to save the whales you got to
bring together people who are left-wing
people who are right-wing people who
disagree with each other in all kinds of
ways you got to make friends and allies
where there were real differences and
the reality is Aaron Janis as she says
herself she used to be freelee's
number-one fan
she used to have feel a debt of
gratitude towards feely and so on
Aaron Janus is also I think a younger
better-looking woman than freely
she's also slim I don't I don't even
think I've seen a photo of her body but
anyway whatever she's obviously in good
shape and I think a very obvious subtext
here part of what's going on is that
freely regards her as competition and as
unwanted competition but again it in
politics in democratic politics
unlike Game of Thrones unlike the 14th
century
unlike medieval politics the whole point
is you have to build coalitions and
constituencies and cooperations again
even if all you want to do is save the
whales and freelee and durianrider they
don't want to just save the whales they
want to save the world they're gonna
save the world with your ad revenue
dollars with your YouTube clicks with
your YouTube viewing yeah right how are
you gonna save the world
you can't even cooperate with Hania you
can't even cooperate with Aaron Janus
come on you can't organize lunch what
are you gonna what are you gonna
organize you can't organize a diet book
that's for damn sure
anyway here's here's the response room
freely and in case you were thinking
that freely was gonna put to rest
there's misconception that her conduct
is in any way immature or embarrassing
because she couldn't she could come back
like a like a you know Republican in a
blue suit and make a totally on message
down-to-earth mature response which by
the way credit to hey Mia that's pretty
much with any who's doing you look at
what Hannah wrote in writing completely
you know suit and tie respectable
response saying I'm sorry that you feel
this way we used to be friends
here's freelee's response setting a
standard for us all you know I could I
could put on an Australian accent I
could do an impersonation but it's up to
this coming from the girl spamming my
facebook wall with her videos question
mark exclamation point share me freely
share me lol just to use me for
promotion
what a jealous [ __ ] she can't succeed
on YouTube because she's lazy
DAF so she hates on those who are
putting in the work and who are
succeeding in spreading the message she
literally has made 14 videos in six
years exclamation point exclamation
point maybe she has a job
maybe she takes care of her grandparents
maybe she takes care of her kids I don't
I don't know anything about her life but
you know not everybody has the time
multiple YouTube videos per day and not
even is the motivation some people want
to make a difference in portal tonight
in another way in a more in from my
perspective possibly in a more
meaningful way I don't know you want it
you want to take a petition to City Hall
you want to take a legal case through
the court system yeah again I've given
so many examples in this channel you
want to get a water sample kit and go
test how much water pollution the
slaughterhouses are putting into the
river so you can challenge that
slaughterhouse you know in court before
the government and makes that so many
things you could do you know so many
non-violent positive productive ways to
pursue making a difference if you live
in a Democratic Society
if you don't other questions get raised
uh if she really gave a blank about the
animals and veganism she would drag her
finger off her well rubbed blank and
pump out the vegan videos if she really
gave a blank she would support my
activism efforts as I still remain the
most effective vegan activist there is
I'm gonna stop reading at that point
sorry for the blanks server the self
censorship
[Music]
the first time I read this I don't mind
coarse language all the music I listen
to as coarse language in it from
beginning to end I mean you know the the
level of curse words in the average rap
song these days about every third word
is a curse word but this is this is
shocking nevertheless because it's so
inappropriate and you know I mean
Aaron's comment was obviously just a
reflection it wasn't really a statement
to the world or anything was a sincere
reflection on how she's lost respect for
you freely and all you've done is proven
why nobody should respect you you've
made it worse and yeah you know again
the use of coarse language in this
context it still manages to be a bit
shocking and offensive in our era when
one course language is indeed so so
widely accepted you know I think one of
the themes running through the the books
a Song of Ice and Fire by Georgia or
Martin they those are the books that
were adapted into the TV show go Game of
Thrones one of the themes that runs
through them in the background is the
paradox of political power being put in
the hands of simply whoever happens to
be the biggest and the strongest this is
not the only theme I mean they're also a
lot of reflections on people inheriting
power or the other ways people get into
political power but you know one of the
questions circulating there is what does
it mean to live in a society where
somebody becomes a political leader
because they're big and strong and maybe
good with a sword right now in veganism
we got to ask yourselves a lot of
questions that come from what does it
mean to be in a social movement I hope
it's a social movement is it a social
movement or is it a bunch of people
sitting alone and talking into their own
cameras talking into their smartphones
you know is it I mean but we're in a
social movement where our leaders have
mostly been picked for having a scene
waste having a flat stomach and being
able to monetize that whether through a
diet book or a yoga DVD or something of
the kind and as I've said in another
video previously that you can click on I
don't I don't even hate on veganism for
that being you know the the main thing
that preoccupies people it's not
surprising that's the most popular thing
going on I'm kind of worried about
everything else so once we move past
that you know top layer of the most
popular the most accessible the most
mainstream content what else is there
and that's where I really get concerned
because there's not a lot of substance
when you move when you move past that
and look the other guys who are out
there bidding for leadership roles I've
mentioned briefly on this channel like I
don't I don't really have any respect
for Steve best Steve best is university
professor he's an academic in some sense
he has formerly researched and written
about veganism and he's given firebrand
lectures this is Steve best not not to
be confused with Joe best he's given
lectures to two large crowds around the
world expressing his views that I
disagree with I I don't subscribe to his
particular philosophy of vegan activism
and you know there were other guys out
there you know trying to take on a
leadership role with different kinds of
credentials and they have different
kinds of problems there are different
kinds of issues as to why they didn't
take on that leadership role or what
they did with a little bit of authority
and leadership they had obviously gary
france ian is another one people can
look at and evaluate obviously you know
the founder of petaa People for the
Ethical Treatment animals go through all
these things but given given that we're
choosing our leaders on the basis of
having a slim waist and given that I've
already made an earlier video talking
with the fact that freely actually
doesn't have any credentials in
nutrition she's university dropout she
Begley says she studied nutrition
University and and dropped out didn't
finish the degree
we don't even know she finished that
course she also complained that her
her professor teaching nutrition was was
fat and unattractive
she likes to complain a lot that
so-called health experts are fat but hey
you know maybe you could learn something
from a fat and an attractive person you
should give it a try sometime maybe as a
wise old woman teaching science of
nutrition and freely could learn a lot
from her stop talking so much
pseudoscience so look here's what I'm
gonna do for you folks given that we're
choosing like Instagram models with flat
stomachs to be our leaders I'm gonna
propose a different leader for the the
vegan movement here you go she's fully
qualified right now
don't let the photograph fool you the
reason why I'm choosing her is that
she's actually more qualified than
freely she posted her transcript these
are grades in university she's a
political science major like myself my
first diploma you first he was in
political science currently and getting
a degree in Asian Studies um and she's
got straight A's apparently at least the
part of her transcript we can see she's
gotten straight A's and if you look
there at her list of credits she's got a
course in human nutrition academic study
a few miniature and she got may think oh
she's she's more highly qualified than
than freely and unlike freely no plastic
surgery whether or not you find her
attractive
I mean beauty is in the eye of the
beholder but um nothing's made at a
plastic nothing's fake oh right and her
future plans apparently she's getting
this degree in political science as a
pre-law degree she's gonna go on to law
school and become a lawyer good for her
so she's not just an Instagram model I
know almost nothing else about this
young woman aside from what I've just
told you now but I've seen her her
university greats i I don't know if
she's highly articulate I've never heard
her speak but it's a good chance she's
more articulate than freely um as far as
I'm concerned in every possible way I
would vote for this young
to be the leader of the vegan movement
in 2016 instead of freely and I for it
not about appearance for me I don't care
my point is there are beautiful women
all over the world it's not that scarce
there are women who have a flat stomach
and a tight waist all over the world
it's not that extraordinary and there
are women selling diet books for every
possible ideology you can name doesn't
call it qualify for anything it's not
that extraordinary but here's the thing
this young woman whose photograph have
just been showing you she's not vegan
she's maintaining this body and this
figure while presumably eating meat
every day okay
that's also the hollowness of physical
beauty in terms of preparing you for
recommending you for any kind of
leadership role in veganism it's just
meaningless but guess what we have no
elections in in digital veganism in this
weird online demi-monde of activism in
this community that doesn't really exist
as such isolated people dodging their
phones um
but if we did if we had an election and
I had to choose between voting for
freely and voting for Angie Verona its
who this young woman is I would vote for
Angie for ona even though she's not
vegan Angie you stay in school
you keep getting good grades go to law
school you didn't even need to go to law
school she got what she's got a BA in
political science I don't know when she
graduates when she's got a bachelor's
degree in political science I say Angie
Verona for president of the vegan
movement even though she eats meat a
particular Pyxis she would do a better
job and it's a safe bet they I mean this
young woman I'm sure she's dealt with
heat comments her whole life she
probably gets the craziest fan mail you
can imagine doing what she does is her
hobby posing on the Internet and I think
she can deal with a comment from another
woman
much better than freely dealt with that
comment from Aaron Janus right like
really when you think about it who do
you think would handle this portfolio
better so there you go Angie Verona has
my vote I think she's fully prepared to
take on the role of president of
veganism if if we vote for her and I
think she'll do a far more professional
role in PR communications outreach
organizing activism and I think she has
a better education in the science and
nutrition too she can probably talk
about diet and trician a lot more
convincing than freely even though she's
not vegan I'm sure I'm sure if the
salary is right and you know she wins
that election I'm sure she can fake it a
bonus you know I'm gonna add in here as
an appendix how I even know who this
young woman is why I looked up for her
site I first heard her name a couple of
years ago on a rap music website a news
website that listed like new albums
coming out and that kind of thing
not really album reviews so much it was
more of a you know hip hop news and
there was an article about her like you
know with some fun of some some trivial
news about her life and it just like it
just announced her as if she was
somebody that people reading this
website would know about or care about
like as if we all already know she was
so I clicked in the article ISM I assume
she was either a rapper or someone
important for rap music in some way here
and she's not apparently just a lot of
guys who listen to hip-hop our fans of
her Instagram page would prefer so that
was when I first learned who she was and
I remember at the time but I was like
reading the sort of level like what does
she have to do with rap music and either
that article mentioned or I click
through to something that mentioned her
brother actually is a vocalist he sings
on some rap tracks so just a couple of
days ago I was working out and listening
to rap music and one of his songs came
on song he sings the chorus on and
another guy's rapping was like
where do I know that April all right
he's the guy and his sister is the model
so so that is the random story of how I
even know this young woman exists but
hey straight A's
flat waste and education in the science
of nutrition and political science
look people like Erin Janice we all
choose who we admire which usually look
up to who are our leaders and who are we
as followers with or without a vote it's
for us to decide
[Music]